Consentext AI Gateway – Prototype Guide for Brayden (Codex) – Detailed
Purpose
This document is for Brayden to build the next prototype iteration of the Consentext AI Gateway using Codex.
The objective is to produce a denser, more useful prototype that helps the team understand the Gateway as a real system concept.
This is not a final architecture implementation.
It is a concept-clarifying prototype.

Primary Prototype Goal
The prototype should simulate the Gateway as a policy and routing layer between health context and AI.
It should help the team understand:
what the gateway controls
how lane routing works
how one user request can lead to different kinds of AI interaction
how data exposure changes by lane
why this concept may become strategically important

Recommended Core Flow
User Request ↓Gateway Classification ↓Trust / Exposure Logic ↓Lane Selection ↓Processing Mode ↓Response ↓Audit Receipt
This should be the backbone of the prototype.

The Gateway’s Three Jobs
The prototype should reinforce that the Gateway does three things:
1. Classifies the request
What is the user trying to do?
2. Applies trust / exposure rules
How much AI access and data exposure is appropriate?
3. Routes the request
Which lane should handle this?
That is the concept.

Lanes to Build Into the Prototype
1. Deterministic
Use for
trends
calculations
timelines
structured data views
non-AI summaries
Prototype behavior
no LLM call
deterministic response or generated mock calculation
explicit label that no AI was used
Team takeaway
Not everything needs AI.

2. Private
Use for
explaining personal lab data
interpreting personal record context
describing personal patterns in plainer language
Internal model example
Use Qwen to conceptually represent the internal lane.
Whether it is fully running or partially simulated is secondary to making the lane visible and believable.
Prototype behavior
clearly marked as protected lane
no external context export
internal processing path visible
Team takeaway
AI can help without immediately exposing sensitive health data externally.

3. Private+
Use for
reduced-context questions
behavior and habit suggestions
general guidance derived from a smaller packet
Prototype behavior
The system should show:
the richer underlying data source
the reduced packet created by the gateway
only the reduced packet being used externally
Example packet
Age: 54Sex: MaleLDL: 168HDL: 40Triglycerides: 210
Team takeaway
The gateway can do meaningful minimization work.

4. Max Intelligence
Use for
broad comparison
treatment research
more open-ended exploration
strongest external AI mode
Prototype behavior
broader outside AI mode
visibly different from Private and Private+
user should understand that this is the most capable lane
Team takeaway
Consentext can preserve user freedom without stepping out of the interaction entirely.

Off-Board Mode
The prototype should include or at least visually represent the off-board path.
This can be shown as:
User → External AI directly
This matters because the prototype should help the team understand what Consentext loses when the gateway is bypassed.
Suggested explanatory points:
no audit
no minimization
no route control
no protected lane
no Consentext guardrails

Suggested Prototype Components
Codex can approach this however is easiest, but conceptually the prototype should contain components such as:
Request Input
A simple place to enter or choose a user request.
Gateway Classifier
A visible layer that determines the lane.
Lane Display
A way to show:
selected lane
explanation for the selection
exposure level
Data Packet Display
Especially for Private+ and Max Intelligence, show what data is being used or sent.
Response Area
The output from the selected path.
Audit Record
A generated receipt or log of the interaction.
This can be lightweight, but it should be visible.

Suggested Example Requests
Use a dense enough set that the team can see the range.
Deterministic
Show my cholesterol trend
Show biomarker changes over six months
List missing measurements from last quarter
Generate timeline of recent labs
Private
Explain my lab results
Summarize what changed in my wearable metrics
Help me understand this pattern in my health data
Explain this medical record in plain English
Private+
What lifestyle changes might improve these labs?
What habits are associated with these numbers?
What non-diagnostic improvements should I explore?
What general factors may influence this pattern?
Max Intelligence
Compare treatments for high LDL
Compare research directions for this issue
Summarize broader approaches discussed in current literature
Compare alternative intervention categories

Simple Routing Logic
A simple rules-based router is good enough for the prototype.
Example pattern
Deterministic keywords / intent
trend
timeline
chart
summarize data
calculate
list
Private keywords / intent
explain my labs
explain my record
interpret my data
summarize my health info
Private+ keywords / intent
lifestyle changes
habits
general recommendations
improve these numbers
Max Intelligence keywords / intent
compare treatments
research
studies
literature
broader options
This does not need to be perfect.It just needs to be understandable and demonstrative.

Suggested Audit Record Format
The prototype should create a structured audit object such as:
{  "timestamp": "...",  "request": "...",  "lane": "...",  "used_internal_model": true,  "external_export": false,  "provider": "Qwen / external / none",  "notes": "..."}
Or a visible UI card that shows the same information.
The purpose is to reinforce that the Gateway is about governance, not just output.

How to Use Qwen in the Prototype
Qwen is included here because the team wants an internal model example and because it helps make the Private lane concrete.
Qwen should represent:
internal inference
protected AI
“inside the wall” behavior
Qwen should not be treated as:
the definition of the whole gateway
proof that one model choice solves the whole system
the center of the architecture
It is one lane example.

How This Prototype Should Feel
The prototype should feel like:
a routing and control experience
a gateway deciding exposure
a protected system mediating AI use
It should not feel like:
just another generic health chatbot
one AI assistant with labels slapped on top
a vague demo with no visible control logic
The user or team member should be able to feel that the Gateway is doing real conceptual work.

Questions This Prototype Should Help Answer
Does the gateway feel necessary?
Do the lanes feel intuitive and distinct?
Does the Private lane feel compelling enough to justify future investment?
Does the minimization concept in Private+ feel believable and useful?
Does Max Intelligence feel like a valuable option rather than a policy failure?
Does the off-board contrast strengthen the argument for Consentext?
Does the team begin to see how the gateway could evolve into a broader context engine later?

What to Avoid
Do not over-focus on:
perfect UI polish
final compliance mechanics
final API stack
full agent architecture
final model ranking
final vendor strategy
The point is to make the Gateway concept dense, visible, and testable.

Recommended End State
By the end of this prototype round, the team should be able to say:
we understand what the gateway is
we understand how it differs from the vault
we understand how the lanes work
we understand why Consentext should remain in front of AI interaction
we know what parts feel strongest and what still needs refinement
That is a successful prototype outcome.

Closing Instruction
Build this prototype to teach the system concept back to the founders and team.
If the prototype makes the gateway easier to understand, then it is doing its job.